# Business Case for Cloud
## Software as a Service
applications, data, runtime, middleware, and servers
## Platform as a Service
develop, run, and manage applications
## Infrastructure as a Service
virtualised computing resources 

**ROI and NPV** - Return on Investment and Net Present Value

# Role of Hyperscalers
Hyperscalers refer to the largest CSPs that provide scalable cloud infrastructure capable of handling vast amounts of data and computation. <br/><br/>

Hyperscalers invest heavily in security measures and compliance certifications, offering advanced tools and services that smaller providers may not match.<br/>

### Edge Computing
a paradigm that brings computation and data storage closer to the sources of data. Internet of Things, Autonamous Vehicles, AR, VR, Gaming.<br/>
Anything that needs a response time that doesn't need to get snagged in a centralised server.
# Key Business and User Requirements for cloud based products
* Availability
* Scalability
* Security and Compliance

## Security-First Mindset
How do I make it secure?

## Identity and Access Management

## Authentication and Authorisation
MFA

## Service Accounts
Principle of Least Privilege. Assign minimal permission. Keep authentication tokens confidential. Monitor activity. Managing groups and roles.

## Managing Identities and Access


**Consider a new big data project within your organisation. Think of a project idea that touches on some of the data engineering skills that we already covered in previous modules such as data quality fundamentals, using databases, data lakes, leveraging programming/scripting/automation and increasing the use of networks with an awareness of cybersecurity.**

**Potential costs to develop and operate the solution**  - CapEx: Migration of data to BCP. Opex: processing costs<br/>

**Potential sources of income/savings provided** - Reduced need for onsite infrastructure  <br/> 

**Target metrics to improve** - Efficiency of requests/ETLs since we will pay by the byte.  <br/> 

**How long it will take to develop vs how long it will be used for** - Years. Unknown. No-one has discussed and end date or a different model<br/> 

**Whether or not your organisation has the expertise or needs to outsource it** - Not outsourcing, but bringing in expertise. <br/> 
