# Database Administration Best Practices
* Scalability
* Performance
* Data Consistency
* Transaction

 Designing for scalability and performance involves considering:

    Data volume and growth rate, 
    Query patterns and performance, 
    Partitioning and sharding, 
    Caching mechanisms, 
    Monitoring and performance tuning. 

## Database Performance Metrics
* Query Performance
* User and Query Conflicts
* Business Transactions
* Capacity
* Configureation (eg. buffer and query caches).

### Tips to increase Database Performance
1: Optimise Queries
2: Improve Indices
3: Defragment Data
4: Increase Memory
5: Strengthen CPU
6: Review Access

## Security
* Authentication
* Authorisation and access control
* Data Encryption
* Data Privacy Protection
* Data Integrity Verification
* Auditing and Logging
  
# SQL and NoSQL Databases
SQL databases are based on the relational model, where data is organized into tables with predefined schemas. Tables consist of rows (records) and columns (fields), with each column having a specific data type. NoSQL is designed to handle large volumes of unstructured or semi-structured data. Uses non relational data models, such as key-value stores. Schemaless or Schema-on-read approach. designed for horizontal scalability across multiple servers, with a distributed architecture for handling large-scale data. prioritise eventual consistency, relaxing strict consistency in favour of availability and partition tolerance. This allows for temporary inconsistencies that are eventually resolved.

## Database Changes: Impacts and Costs
* Datastream - Can affect downstream applications and users.
* Schema - Big potential issue in SQL, less of an issue in NoSQL
* Data Format
* Performance
* Processing and Storage Costs - SQL lower storage costs, potentially higher processing costs for complex operations.

# Monitoring and Optimising Database Performance
## Metrics:
* Response Time
* Throughput
* Concurrency
* Resource Utilisation
* Indexing

## Learning Journal Task:
**In your learning journal, research the third-party database monitoring solutions that your company uses.**


### Query Profiling (Query Logging and Analysis)
### Indexing Strategies
Indexing strategies focus on creating appropriate indexes on frequently queried columns, choosing the right index types based on data characteristics and query patterns, and monitoring index usage and performance to identify redundant or underutilised indexes.
### Database Configuration
memory allocation, buffer sizes, caching mechanisms, and parallelism settings

## Horizontal Vs Vertical Scaling
Vertical scaling involves adding resources (CPU, memory, storage). Horizontal Scaling, or Sharding, distributes data across multiple servers.

## Indexing
 it is recommended that you create an index for tables containing lots of columns, those most commonly used, and those with high cardinality.
## Database Sizing
If you do not plan to add any new data to your database, then it is recommended that you do not increase the size of your database. Increasing the size of your database will cause additional I/O operations which can affect performance.
## Index Fragmentation
Index fragmentation occurs when all the rows in an index become fragmented into different pages due to their sizes. For example, if there are two columns in an index, one column has 100 rows while another has 50 rows.
## File Fragmentation
File fragmentation occurs when the files are filled with different pages due to the large data size. For example, if there are two columns in an index, one column has 100 rows while another has 50 rows.
## Reduce Table Size
If you have been using the same table for a long time, then it is recommended that you should consider reducing the size of your table. Reducing the size of your table will cause fewer I/O operations and fewer disk seeks to retrieve data from the disk.
## Auto Increment Columns
If there are several columns in a single table, it is recommended that each of these columns have an auto-incrementing ID. Thus, it would be unique.
This would help improve performance by eliminating duplicate IDs when rows are inserted into a table. This can happen since each row would have its unique ID.
##Enable/Disable Statistics
When a new query or statement is executed against a database, then statistics are calculated and stored in memory by default. This helps improve performance by reducing I/O operations.

If you do not want to store statistics in memory, you can disable them. This would help improve performance operation by reducing the latency.
